= Tuning In

start abstract::
Tune your favorite RSS reader in to the PragmaticAutomation.com RSS
feed and let your computer deliver fresh automation goodies right to
your desktop!
end abstract::

=== Using Your Favorite Web Browser

The default URL (http://pragmaticautomation.com) displays the 15 most
recent entries posted on the site.  You can append additional path
elements to the URL to limit the display to entries in or below that
path.  Clicking on the title from anywhere returns you to the default
URL.


=== Using Your Favorite RSS Reader

You can get an RSS feed of the entries on the site by appending
<tt>index.rss</tt> to the URL path.  For example:
 
   http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/index.rss

will give you the top 15 entries on the site, and

   http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/Monitor/index.rss

will give you the top 15 entries below the Monitor category.

You can use synopsis.rss instead of index.rss to receive just the
summaries of articles.  If an article was not created with a summary
you'll still get the full body.

=== Page Size

You can change the count of entries returned (from either the RSS or
conventional feed) by adding a <tt>count=</tt> parameter:

   http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/Monitor/index.rss?count=5

   http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi?count=5

If the count is fewer than the number of matching entries, you'll be
able to page backwards and forwards to view the rest.


=== Historical Information

To view the entries for a particular year, month, or day, simply
append the date to the path:

http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/2004::
   display all entries for 2004.

http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/2004/6::
   display all entries for June 2004.

http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/2004/6/23::
   display all entries for June 23, 2004.

You can also ask to see what the site looked like on a particular date
using the <tt>asof</tt> parameter.

http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi?asof=2004/6/23::
   display blog contents as of July 6, 2004.

This basically tells the site not to display entries created or
modified past the given date.
