= Masthead

start abstract:: 
What's PragmaticAutomation.com all about?  It's a site
dedicated to all things related to automating the dull, boring,
tedious, and repetitive chores on your software project.  The mission
is simple: to free up your time to do more worthwhile--and challenging--stuff, such as writing quality code.
end abstract::

Welcome to the liberating world of automation, where we get off the
treadmill by putting this thing called a <i>computer</i> to work for
us.

Pragmatic Automation isn't about the sort of automation used to
process your payroll, not that we don't like the output of that
process.  Nor is it about programming your computer to turn on and off
the lights in your house--ok, so instead we'll light up feedback
devices in your office.

Pragmatic Automation is a repository of news, stories, tools, tips,
and tricks for all things related to automating the dull, boring,
tedious, and repetitive chores on your software project.  The mission
is simple: to free up your time to do more worthwhile--and
challenging--stuff, such as writing quality code.  As an added bonus,
automation also guarantees more consistent and repeatable results.

It's high time we start bumming more work off these machines.
Pragmatic Automation is all about making automation work for
<i>you</i>, and making it fun!

=== Syndication

In the spirit of automation, this site is best viewed through your
favorite RSS reader.  Simply subscribe to the {RSS 0.91
feed}[http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/index.rss], schedule your
reader to refresh the feed on an interval of your choosing, and let
the computer deliver fresh automation goodies right to your desktop.
If you like to fiddle with options, {TuningIn}[http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/TuningIn.rdoc] shows you how to dial in
all the syndication settings.

=== Contributors

Pragmatic Automation is edited by {Mike Clark}[http://clarkware.com],
and made interesting by contributions from you.  Got project
automation?  Help your fellow programmers get off the treadmill by
sharing your news, story, tool, tip, or trick. {Suggest
content!}[http://www.pragmaticautomation.com/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/SuggestContent.rdoc]

=== Content Use

All the content on this site is licensed under the {Creative Commons
Attribution-NonCommercial
License}[http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/2.0/].
 
