= Announcing Pragmatic Studio

abstract::
Announcing {Pragmatic Studio}[http://studio.pragprog.com]: a two-day interactive workshop where you learn how to make version control, unit testing, and automation work for you!
 
When I visit projects, I often get asked the question: "How do other
projects apply automation, version control, and unit testing?"
Everyone knows they should be doing these key practices, but very few
folks know just how.  So by asking the question, managers and
developers not only want to know what tools to use, but, more
importantly, how other companies are using these fundamental practices
to their advantage.  You see, the teams I visit don't have a lot of
time for trial and error.  They urgently need to know how to implement
the practices <i>right</i>.

{Dave}[http://blogs.pragprog.com/cgi-bin/pragdave.cgi/Practices/PragmaticStudio.rdoc],
{Andy}[http://www.toolshed.com/blog/News/studio.html,v], and I are
excited to announce {Pragmatic Studio}[http://studio.pragprog.com]: a
two-day interactive workshop where you learn how to make automation, version
control, and unit testing work for you.  It's a unique
opportunity to glimpse into a well-oiled project that's using the
essential practices covered in the {Pragmatic Starter
Kit}[http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/sk/].  Based on our combined
experience having visited many projects, you'll be engaged in a
project-like setting where we won't just tell you what to do, we'll
show you first-hand how to do it right.  But more than that, through
lively discussion and fun interaction you'll learn how to tailor the
practices to your project.

And to make it more convenient for you to attend, we're bringing
Pragmatic Studio to {three
cities}[http://studio.pragprog.com/travel.html] this summer.  We hope
to see you in one of these Studios!
