= OSCON 2005

abstract:: 
Mike Clark is scheduled to give an automation with Ruby talk at the O'Reilly Open Source Convention (OSCON) in August.

I'm tickled pink, er, red to report that I just received confirmation
that my automation with Ruby talk proposal has been accepted for the
{O'Reilly Open Source Convention
(OSCON)}[http://conferences.oreillynet.com/os2005/] in August.  

I (heart) Ruby, and the number of real-life applications being built
with Ruby is on the rise, thanks in large part to the
{Rails}[http://www.rubyonrails.org/] juggernaut.  Thankfully, the Ruby
community has crafted good tools for automating many of the chores
that go along with building and supporting these applications.  And
the Ruby language lends itself well to quickly automating repetitive
tasks on any project.

My <em>Getting Off the Treadmill</em> talk will cover at least the
following:

* Using {Rake}[http://rake.rubyforge.org/] and
  {Test::Unit}[http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/test/unit/rdoc/index.html]
  to create a one-step build and test process.
* Continuously building and testing your code with
  {DamageControl}[http://damagecontrol.codehaus.org/]. (Hey, it's
  written in Ruby.)
* Packaging, deploying, and installing applications with ease using
  {RubyGems}[http://rubygems.rubyforge.org].
* Using Ruby to generate project metrics and synoptic displays.
* Turning step-by-step manual chores into push-button Ruby scripts.
* Monitoring builds and running programs with email, RSS, your cell
  phone, and other feedback devices.
* And I'm sure I won't be able to resist showing off a
  {Rails}[http://www.rubyonrails.org/] application (or ten).

Yes, I'll bring my lava lamps, X10 controllers, orbs, and any other
yummy automation gear I can scrounge before the conference.  (Airport
security can pry them from my cold, dead fingers.  Well, maybe not.)

Hope to see you there!

