= How to Use RubLog

RubLog is a simple web log, based around the idea of displaying a set of
regular files in a log-format.

== Preparing Content

Content consists of a set of articles, each in a separate file. Each
article is prepared in either plain text, RDoc, or HTML format. The
content type of a particular file is identified by the file's
extension (.txt, .rdoc, or .html respectively).

The article files are arranged in a directory hierarchy below the
+data+ directory. The names of the directories in this hierarchy
become the names of the categories and subcategories displayed in the
RubLog index.

RubLog can read the content either directly from flat files, or from
files checked in via RCS/CVS. In particular, that means that any
number of people sharing a CVS tree of the articles can create
content, using either a central RubLog server working of the CVS tree
or a local RubLog server working from their local filesystem.

== RDoc Specials

Within an RDoc format article, you can include images and links to
external web pages using their URL. You can include hyperlinks to
other RubLog pages by citing their relative page name. If the target
article is in the same filesystem directory as the source, and if the
file name is a WikiWord, then the form of the link can just be that
WikiWord. For example, this article is called <tt>Using</tt><tt>RubLog.rdoc</tt> in the
directory RubLog. So, if you have UsingRubLog in an article in the same directory, it will automatically hyperlink here.

You can also hyperlink to an article in any directory by specifying its
path (relative to the +data+ directory). Again, the file extension is
omitted, so a link to this article would look like RubLog/UsingRubLog.


== Displaying Content

Accessing the RubLog script (for example using
<tt>/cgi-bin/rublog.cgi</tt>) displays the five most recently editing
articles on the left hand side of the browser, along with a summary of
total articles by category in a sidebar to the right. Clicking on the
name of a category in the sidebar displays the most recently edited
entries in that category.

Each article has a title bar. Clicking on the article name in that
title bar displays that article in a page of its own.

== Special URLs

If <tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi</tt> is the main RubLog url, then

[<tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/CategoryName</tt>]
  displays the category summary for the given category

[<tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/CategoryName/ArticleName.rdoc</tt>]
  displays the given article
