= How to Use RubLog

RubLog is a simple web log, based around the idea of displaying a set of
regular files in a log-format.

== Preparing Content

Content consists of a set of articles, each in a separate file. Each
article is prepared in either plain text, RDoc, or HTML format. The
content type of a particular file is identified by the file's
extension (.txt, .rdoc, or .html respectively). See InputFormats/index
for more details.

The article files are arranged in a directory hierarchy below the
+data+ directory. The names of the directories in this hierarchy
become the names of the categories and subcategories displayed in the
RubLog index.

RubLog can read the content either directly from flat files, or from
files checked in via RCS/CVS. In particular, that means that any
number of people sharing a CVS tree of the articles can create
content, using either a central RubLog server working of the CVS tree
or a local RubLog server working from their local filesystem.

== Displaying Content

Accessing the RubLog script (for example using
<tt>/cgi-bin/rublog.cgi</tt>) displays the five most recently editing
articles on the left hand side of the browser, along with a summary of
total articles by category in a sidebar to the right. Clicking on the
name of a category in the sidebar displays the most recently edited
entries in that category.

Each article has a title bar. On the right of this title bar are three links:

+print+:: displays the current article in a format suitable for printing

+link+:: displays the article on its own. The URL for this can be used
         as a permanent link to this particular article.

+all+::  displays the entire contents of the blog, centered on the 
         current article. This allows you to see the article in its
         temporal context: using the arrow links in the page header
         lets you scroll forwards and backwards in time.

== Special URLs

If <tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi</tt> is the main RubLog url, then

[<tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/CategoryName</tt>]
  displays the category summary for the given category

[<tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/CategoryName/ArticleName.rdoc</tt>]
  displays the given article

[<tt>cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/=ArticleName</tt>]
  displays articles in all categories whose name (without the extension)
  matches +ArticleName+

=== RSS Summary

You can get an RSS summary of the blog by appending
<tt>index.rss</tt> to the request path or by adding <tt>?rss</tt> to
any blog URL.  That is both
 
   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?rss
   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/index.rss

will give you an RSS summary of the top 'n' entries for the whole site, and both

   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/Tech?rss
   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/Tech/index.rss

will give the entries below Tech/. <tt>index.rss</tt> is the
preferred form.

You can also get an RSS feed that contains just article synopses (for
those articles that contain synopses) using <tt>/synopsis.rss</tt> and
<tt>?synopsisrss</tt>.

=== Page Size

You can change the count of entries returned (from either the RSS or
conventional feed) by adding a count= parameter:

   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/Tech?rss&count=100

   cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?count=5

If the count is fewer than the number of matching entries, you'll be
able to scroll backwards and forwards to view the rest.,


=== Historical Information

To view the blog entries for a particular year, month, or day, append
the date to the path, or use the <tt>for_date</tt> parameter.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/2003::
   display all entries for 2003.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/2003/2::
   display all entries for February 2003.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/2003/2/7::
   display all entries for February 7, 2003.

The above could also have been written using the <tt>for_date</tt>
parameter (although this is deprecated).

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?for_date=2003::
   display all entries for 2003.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?for_date=2003/2::
   display all entries for February 2003.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?for_date=2003/2/7::
   display all entries for February 7, 2003.


You can also ask to see what the blog looked like on a particular date
using the <tt>asof</tt> parameter.

cgi-bin/rublog.cgi?asof=2003/2/7::
   display blog contents as of February 7, 2003.

This basically tells the blog not to display articles created or
modified past the given date.


=== Scrolling

If a query returns multiple articles, you can ask that the display
starts at a particular one using the "<tt>+</tt><em>path</em>"
notation:

    cgi-bin/rublog.cgi/Tech+Tech/Blog/Syndication.rdoc,v

This performs a normal query for articles in or below <tt>Tech</tt>,
then displays them starting at the <em>Syndication</em> article.

This option isn't really intended for general use: the blog uses it
internally for scrolling.

