= Simple Installation

Simple installation lets you install and try RubLog without too much
effort. However, this isn't how you'd want to run RubLog for real--it
is just intended to get something up and running so you can play. See
FullInstallation for the gory details.

You'll need Ruby 1.8.2 or later to run RubLog as described. If you have an older 
version of Ruby, see the notes at the end.

You have two options if you want to try RubLog out quickly:

1. Use WEBrick, or

2. Install RubLog in your Apache document path and run it as a CGI script.



= Running RubLog with WEBRick

If you have the WEBRick library installed (which will will have with
Ruby 1.8.1 and later), you can use it to run RubLog. From the RubLog
source directory, issue the command

  ruby extras/webrick/rublog_servlet.rb

Once it starts, point your browser at http://localhost:8808 and you
should see documents describing RubLog (including this one).



= Running RubLog as a CGI Script

You can rub RubLog as a CGI script. I've only tried it under Apache,
but it way well work in other environments. 

=== Installation

* Uncompress the RubLog archive somewhere in your Apache htdocs/html
  tree (or in your local ~/Sites directory). Where ever you put it,
  you have to arrange things to that the file "simple.cgi" ends up
  being able to be executed as a CGI script. This is somewhat site
  dependent: in some sites, all files ending .cgi are executable--your
  httpd.conf will contain a line like

     AddHandler cgi-script .cgi

  In other sites, you may have to add a ScriptAlias line to your
  httpd.conf to get it to work. On my Powerbook, I have the following
  in my httpd.conf:

    ScriptAlias /rublog/ "/Users/pragdave/Work/ruby/rublog/"
    <Directory "/Users/pragdave/Work/ruby/rublog"> 
        AllowOverride None
        Options FollowSymLinks 
        Order allow,deny
        Allow from all
    </Directory>


* Make sure that the #! line in simple.rb references your Ruby
  interpreter. Normally Ruby installs in to /usr/local/bin/ruby, but
  it might be worth checking.

* Make sure Apache is running, then point your browser at the
  simple.cgi script, for example:

     http://my.host.com/rublog/simple.cgi

* It'll either display the RubLog documentation, or fail
  miserably. In the latter case, you might want to check your
  error_log for more details.

* Once you start seeing articles, try adding files and directories to
  the +doc+ directory. Have a look at InputFormats/index for details
  of the formats of the files.


== If you have an older Ruby

The only reason that this description says that Ruby 1.8.2 is required
is because that version of the interpreter comes pre-loaded with RDoc
and WEBRick.  RDoc is used if you are using rdoc markup to create blog
files, and WEBRick is only required if you use it to run RubLog. If
you can scrounge a copy of RDoc from somewhere and install it into an
older Ruby, RubLog should work just fine (I've even run it using Ruby
1.6.7).
