= Oozing Confidence

start abstract::
Alberto Savoia tells us how an April Fool's Day joke turned into a
valuable feedback tool for this team.
end abstract::

Alberto Savoia {writes}[http://www.artima.com/weblogs/viewpost.jsp?thread=67492]:

<em>A few months ago, on April 1(!) 2004 to be precise, I posted an
article on {eXtreme
Feedback}[http://www.developertesting.com/managed_developer_testing/000036.html].
The article was on a relatively serious subject: "How do you get your
team to pay attention to the software/project status and metrics that
you care about?", but one of my solutions for getting the team to pay
attention was to "invent" and implement eXtreme Feedback Devices
(XFDs) that would be very visible, fun, and hard to ignore.</em>

<em>One of these XFDs consists of a pair of lava lamps (one green and one
red) remotely connected to our build and test system in such a way
that a successful build (all tests pass) turns on the green lava lamp,
and a failed build (or failed tests) turns on the red one.</em>

<em>The original Java lava lamps have been glowing red and green for
the past several months in our offices, and have achieved something of
a cult status (e.g. they are included in Mike Clark's excellent book
{Pragmatic Project
Automation}[http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/sk/auto], and have
recently received a fair amount of buzz on
{Slashdot}[http://developers.slashdot.org/developers/04/08/26/1550255.shtml]).</em>

<em>The interesting thing, for me, is that something that I started as
something of a joke (it was April 1st after all) actually turned out
to be a very useful tool in more ways than one. Sure, I could go to
our CruiseControl page to see if they build is broken, or set-up email
alerts, but keeping track of the lamps (which are centrally located in
our development area) is easier, faster, and gives me an ongoing view
into the current status and ebb-and-flow of our build and test cycles.</em>

I got an opportunity to visit Alberto's project a few weeks back and
witness first-hand those infamous lava lamps.  You really can't miss
them.  When I walked in, the red lamp was bubbling.  And yet the
managers weren't beating the programmers about the head and shoulders,
as some might fear.  Indeed, I didn't sense any sort of panic or condescension.  What I
did sense was confidence.

See, the team had learned to take the red lamp as feedback.  They run
an extensive battery of tests on every build and the red lamp was
telling them that their tests were actually <em>testing</em>
something.  An assertion somewhere had failed the last time somebody
checked in code.  This is a good thing.  Indeed, this is what
continuous integration is all about.  It becomes a bad thing when the
green lamp never turns on.  So they were diligently (and confidently)
working to repair the build as a priority over other tasks for the day
because they didn't want to work on unstable ground.

It's important to note that Alberto's team is a bright group of folks
building impressive {products}[http://www.agitar.com/products/].
Feedback is serious business, but they've found a way to make it fun.
They use the lava lamps to their advantage, not as gimmicks or another
way for the pointy-haired manager to keep tabs on their work.  And
when the lamp does go red, they're confident that it won't stay that
way for long.
