= Visualizing Your Network Status

abstract:: 
Got better things to do than refresh your network status pages?  Write a simple screen scraper that visually alerts you to network outages.  Here's how.

jgaynor {writes}[http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~jgaynor/lights/]:

[] <em>Inspired by an {old Slashdot article}[http://developers.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=04/08/26/1550255]
   and my obsessive need for shorter network outage response times, I
   decided this year to create a 'Christmas lights' frontend to our
   Network Management System. The results have been very
   encouraging. ... </em>

   <em>I recently moved from NOC operator to engineer and
   can no longer spend all my time staring at and refreshing network
   status webpages :(. As such I wanted something that could alert me
   to outages with little or no effort on my part. ... </em>

   <em>In a nutshell, the Thinkpad checks a remote cron-generated file
   every five minutes for the existence of any alarms. Not wanting to
   reinvent the wheel for this, I use data from our pre-existing and
   very capable network monitoring system to populate that file. The
   Thinkpad then turns on the corresponding circuit of Christmas
   lights based on what it found in that file - white for all clear
   and red for trouble.</em>

Instructions, pictures, movies, and even a live web cam are
{here}[http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~jgaynor/lights/].

His {Bash
script}[http://www.rci.rutgers.edu/~jgaynor/lights/script.txt] is
another good ol' fashioned screen scraper, powered by
{wget}[http://www.gnu.org/software/wget/wget.html].  To toggle two X10
devices, he uses {BottleRocket}[http://mlug.missouri.edu/~tymm/].
Simple, elegant, and well worth every hand-typed character:  

  #!/bin/sh

  /usr/bin/wget \
    http://censored-because-I-like-not-being-fired.edu/remotefile \
    -O /home/localfile

  CHECK=`grep 1 /home/localfile`

  if [ -n "$CHECK" ]
  then
    br A2 on
    br A1 off
  else
    br A1 on
    br A2 off
  fi

Put the script on a schedule, plug in monitoring devices of your
choosing, and then consider what you're going to do with all the time
you'll save.
