= A Sneak Peek at Automator

abstract::
The goal of ubiquitous automation is one of the reasons I'm excited about Automator: a feature in the soon-to-be-released Mac OS X Tiger.  {Working with Automator}[http://developer.apple.com/macosx/tiger/automator.html], the latest article in the Tiger Developer Overview Series, gives you a quick overview of Automator, and then shows you how you can build your own Actions and share them with other users.  

I enjoy writing programs that glue recurring tasks together into an
automation workflow.  And as a programmer, I have lots of automation
tools within reach.  But those tools often only get me half way to my
goal.  Once I've written a program that automates a task, I'd like to
share the task with non-programmers and allow them to use it to build
their own automation workflows.  Indeed, automation is for all of us.

The goal of ubiquitous automation is one of the reasons I'm excited
about {Automator}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/tiger/automator.html]: a feature in the soon-to-be-released Mac OS X Tiger.
To my mind, it enables automation for the masses.  Simply by dragging
preloaded <i>Actions</i> onto a <i>Workflow</i>, anyone on your project
can automate the tasks of checking out code from version control,
building the project, and creating an installation package.  That's a
few project chores you can check off the list, but imagine what other
chores you might be able to automate when you start creating and
sharing your own custom Actions.

{Working with
Automator}[http://developer.apple.com/macosx/tiger/automator.html],
the latest article in {James'}[http://blog.x180.net/] Tiger Developer Overview Series, gives you a
quick overview of Automator, and then shows you how you can build your
own Actions and share them with other users.

Automator not only puts another automation tool within your reach, but
it also conveniently puts the automation tools you build within the
reach of others.  When you start playing with Automator, please do
{write in}[http://localhost/cgi-bin/pragauto.cgi/SuggestContent.rdoc]
with your stories.  I plan to share any Actions I craft right here, so stay
tuned.
