= SwitchTower as an Automated Deployment Archetype

abstract::
SwitchTower is an archetype of automated deployment.  Check it out before rolling your own solution.

I've been remiss to have delayed mentioning
{SwitchTower}[http://manuals.rubyonrails.com/read/book/17] until now.
It's an open-source utility that makes one-step deployment to one or
more machines both possible and painless.

Say, for example, you need to roll out a new release of your killer
app to two web servers, four application servers, and a database
server.  You could manually log in to each of those machines and type
a list of commands, or just let SwitchTower do it for you:

  rake deploy

That single incantation causes SwitchTower to execute the commands
listed in your deployment recipe in parallel (and atomically) on
multiple machines.  (It uses <tt>ssh</tt> to communicate with the
remote machines.)  It's really that easy.

But then you notice that the application you just deployed has a bug.
After giving your manager fifty push-ups, you're thankful you can
press the "undo" button:

  rake rollback

That command rolls back the application to the last deployed version
<em>on all deployed machines</em>.  Yes, it's really that easy.

I've been starting to use SwitchTower on all my {Rails projects}[http://clarkware.com/rails.html], and
demo'ing it in our {Pragmatic Rails
Studio}[http://pragmaticstudio.com].  As a result, SwitchTower has
truly spoiled me.  It's an automator's dream, and I can't imagine
going back to manual deployment gyrations.  

That brings us to the point of this elevator pitch: Can you deploy and
roll back software releases this easily and consistently on your
project?  If not, I'd recommend you give the SwitchTower
{manual}[http://manuals.rubyonrails.com/read/book/17] a read,
especially if you <em>aren't</em> building Rails applications.  That's
right, even if you've never heard of Ruby or Rails you owe it to
yourself to check out SwitchTower because its concepts aren't specific
to Ruby or Rails.  And in fact it seems possible to use SwitchTower as the deployment vehicle for apps of any size and color
by customizing a core set of tasks.  I'd love to hear of efforts to
adapt SwitchTower to J2EE projects, for example.

Every software project can benefit from a deployment process that
takes less time and money without sacrificing quality.  SwitchTower is
an archetype of automated deployment.  Check it out before rolling
your own solution.
