= Tiger: An Automation Platform

abstract::
Apple's latest operating system is an automator's playground.

In the last 24 hours, I've upgraded my private and public worlds.
Thankfully, both upgrades went off without a hitch.  This PowerBook is
now happily running {Tiger}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/overview/] and
my {company web site}[http://clarkware.com] is now being hosted by
{TextDrive}[http://www.textdrive.com/].  The end result is that I now
have more options for automation across the board.

On the global front, TextDrive has all the
{tools}[http://textdrive.com/specs/] I need to get things done on the
web.  It's nothing short of a geek's paradise, and the support has
been superb.

Locally, Tiger has all the fixings for an automation feast:
{Automator}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/automator/],
{Dashboard}[http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/dashboard/], and even
the latest version of Ruby.  Automator and Dashboard have been
primarily focused at the consumer market, but both have a lot of
potential for project automation.  Imagine a Dashboard widget that
shows, at a glance, the health of your build or production
application.  As well, Automator is at your service to help simplify
repetitive or time-consuming project chores.  Imagine a consistent, 
repeatable workflow that takes your source code and, through a series of 
visually-assembled actions, transforms it into a packaged release.

Here are just a few resources to whet your appetite:

- {Working with
  Automator}[http://developer.apple.com/macosx/automator.html]: An
  overview of Automator and primer for writing Automator actions
  (Apple Developer Connection)

- {Delegating the grunt
  work}[http://www.macworld.com/2005/04/features/tigerautomator/index.php]:
  An introduction to Automator (MacWorld)

- {Automator World}[http://www.automatorworld.com/]: A clearinghouse
  for Automator workflows, actions, news, etc.

- {Automator
  Actions}[http://www.apple.com/downloads/macosx/automator/]: Apple's
  site of Automator actions, ready for the taking

- {Automator Programming Guide}[http://developer.apple.com/documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/AutomatorConcepts/index.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40001450]

- {Developing Dashboard Widgets}[http://developer.apple.com/macosx/dashboard.html]: A
  jump-start to writing your first Dashboard widget (Apple Developer
  Connnection)

- {Discovering the
  Dashboard}[http://www.macworld.com/2005/04/features/tigerdashboard/index.php]
  : An introduction to Dashboard (MacWorld)

- {Dashboard Programming Guide}[http://developer.apple.com/documentation/AppleApplications/Conceptual/Dashboard_Tutorial/index.html]

I'm looking forward to building a few Automator actions and Dashboard
widgets myself.  Moreover, I'm excited to see the killer applications
that emerge from what promises to be a groundswell of activity around
these tools.  So please dig in, and share what you find!
