= Blogging Your Build

abstract:: 
Simon Brown describes how to automatically publish the results of your
build process to a project blog for everyone to see.

<em>{Simon Brown}[http://www.simongbrown.com/blog/] contributed this
brilliant idea (and code) for automatically publishing the results of
your build process to a project blog:</em>

Blogs are a great way of sharing thoughts and ideas to a wider
audience in an easy and structured way. Currently, most blogs are
published on the Internet but there's nothing stopping you from using
them internally for projects too. A project blog could be used to
share information about the project or keep notes of all those little
technical tips and tricks that everybody in the team needs to know. In
fact, why not use a project blog to make a note of the tasks that have
been completed in any given day in the same way that you might use a
diary? Taking this further, why not integrate your project blog into
your continuous build process?

Most blogging systems support a couple of XML-RPC APIs (the Blogger
and MetaWeblog APIs) that allow you to post to a blog programmatically
and this has been used to build many blogging clients that let you
post to your blog using feature-rich desktop applications. However,
why not post content to a blog from tools like Ant and CruiseControl?

As part of the {Pebble}[http://pebble.sourceforge.net/] project, I put
together some {Ant
tasks}[http://www.simongbrown.com/blog/2004/04/25/1082915947000.html]
so that I could update a blog whenever a build is performed. Extending
this idea further, I put together some {more Ant
tasks}[http://www.simongbrown.com/blog/2004/09/30/1096538534543.html]
so that I can upload files to a project blog as a part of the build
process and this is useful if you want to upload build artefacts
(e.g., build/test reports, binaries, etc) for distribution to people
that aren't necessarily part of the project team.

With RSS feeds being a key component of most, if not all, blogging
systems, the integration between blogs and the build process provides
a nice additional benefit because anybody subscribed to it will be
notified whenever the build fails.

<em>I'm thinking a CruiseControl
{publisher}[http://cruisecontrol.sourceforge.net/main/configxml.html#publishers]
that used the Blogger API, for example, to publish the build status to
your project blog would be convenient.  You wouldn't have to add a
special target to every Ant build file and only your scheduled builds
would get posted to the project blog.  A <tt>blogpublisher</tt> would
be trivial to write...  </em>

<b>Update:</b> Literally hours after this post, {Lasse
Koskela}[http://radio.javaranch.com/channel/lasse/] had written a
CruiseControl blog publisher that uses the {Blogger
API}[http://radio.javaranch.com/channel/lasse/2004/10/30/1099095285000.html],
then added support for the {MetaWeblog
API}[http://radio.javaranch.com/channel/lasse/2004/10/30/1099154590000.html],
and capped it off with support for the {LiveJournal
API}[http://radio.javaranch.com/channel/lasse/2004/10/31/1099225461000.html].
You can download the source and configuration files
{here}[http://radio.javaranch.com/channel/lasse/2004/10/31/1099225461000.html].
He graciously contributed everything to the CruiseControl project, so
it should also be in the {CVS repository}[http://cruisecontrol.sourceforge.net/cvs.html] soon.  Nice work, Lasse!
