= Checking Up on the Competition

abstract::
This simple Ruby script pays for itself time and again by checking up
on your web site, and possibly even your competition.
 
A simple HTML screen scraper is one of an automator's best friends.
You hook it up to a web page you want to monitor and walk away, knowing
you'll get notified if the web site crashes or gets sick.

The book includes a Unix shell script called <tt>checkurl.sh</tt> that
scrapes a web page and sends out email if the page isn't found or
shouts bad words such as "Error" or "Exception".  Steve Kellock
contributed a Ruby screen scraper that I whittled into the shape of
the original shell script for better portability:

  require 'open-uri'
  require 'net/smtp'

  if ARGV.empty? then
    puts "usage: check_url.rb <url>"
    exit 1
  end

  url = ARGV[0]
  smtp_host = "your.smtp.host"
  to = "3035551212@mobile.att.net"
  from = "monitor@acme.com"
  subject="Uh oh!"
  message = ""

  begin
    page = open(url).read
    if page =~ /Error|Exception/
      message = "Error or Exception"
    end
  rescue
    message = "Unavailable - #{$!.message}" 
  end

  mail = <<MAIL  
  Subject: #{subject}

  Sadly, #{url} isn't feeling well right now.

  Diagnosis: #{message}
  MAIL 


  Net::SMTP.start(smtp_host) do |smtp|
    smtp.send_mail(mail, from, to)
  end

To run it, just provide a URL you'd like checked.  For example:

  ruby check_url.rb http://demoserver:8080/killerapp

Then schedule it to check the web page on a recurring interval using
<tt>cron</tt>, <tt>at</tt>, or your favorite scheduler.

You can extend this simple technique to monitor all kinds of
information across the web.  Steve uses it to get a leg up on the
competition.  He sells a Windows-based desktop {swimming
organizer}[http://www.swimshark.ca] and he wants to know on a daily
basis if any of his competitors have released a new version of any of
their similar programs.  Steve is a one-man show, but his Ruby scripts
let him focus his time on the important stuff.  One of his Ruby
scripts visits the download page of each competitor's site, scrapes
version numbers, compiles a list, and sends Steve the results at
midnight every night.  Steve sums it up with this great quote:

[]  <em>Life is better with automation.  It increases the number of plates you can keep spinning by tenfold.</em>
