= Listening To Complex Systems

start abstract::
Pragmatic Programming relies on feedback, but it can be difficult to
monitor in complex environments (e.g., fighter pilots, network
administrators, software developers).  A <i>sonic ecology</i> can
leverage peripheral hearing to provide information-rich monitoring
without distracting you.
end abstract::

{Andy}[http://www.toolshed.com/blog] contributed the following story about
monitoring complex systems using audio feedback:

[] <em>Pragmatic Programming relies on feedback, but in many environments it
   can be difficult to constantly monitor all of the information that
   might be available. {This
   paper}[http://peep.sourceforge.net/docs/lisa2000.pdf] presents a
   system based on a <i>sonic ecology</i>: with very little effort on
   the part of the listener, you can determine what sounds right and
   discern singularly important differences with little or no
   conscious thought.</em>

   <em>{The Peep project}[http://www.auralizer.com:8080/peep]
   represents individual events in a network monitoring environment as
   natural sounds in a wetlands environment.  In other words, as the
   network load increases, the crickets start chirping faster.  E-mail
   traffic might sound like birds calling each other, and so on.  When
   the crickets stop chirping or the lion comes crashing through the
   firewall, you know you've got trouble.</em>

   <em>Ant implements a very simple version of this idea with its
   <tt>sound</tt> task:</em>

     <sound>
       <success source="excellent.wav" />
       <fail source="humiliation.wav" />
     </sound>

   <em>That might be a good start, but I'll bet implementing a
   full-scale wetlands or jungle soundscape to represent your build
   status, test and defect density, amount of code written, time to
   the deadline (do I hear a storm coming in??) and so on would be a
   <i>lot</i> of fun.</em>

Indeed, I think implementing soundscapes for project monitoring would
be fun <i>and</i> valuable.  Imagine walking into a project
environment and just taking a few seconds to hear how things are
going---by listening to the system itself!


