= Programs That Growl

abstract:: 
Growl is a central notification system for Mac OS X that
makes it easy to send notifications from your applications that get
displayed on the screen.

Michael McCracken's <tt>stakeout</tt> program now
{growls}[http://michael-mccracken.net/blog/blosxom.pl/computers/mac/programming/stakeoutMeetGrowl.html].  Neat!

{Growl}[http://growl.info/index.php] is a central notification system
for Mac OS X.  Applications and scripts can uniformly send
notifications to Growl, which then displays the notification message
on your screen in a {stylish, modeless
dialog}[http://growl.info/screenshots.php].  Growl works with a
growing number of
{applications}[http://growl.info/documentation/applications.php].
More important, it's easy to make your program growl using Growl's
command-line program, bindings for Python, Perl, and Tcl, or the Cocoa
framework.

Now I find too many pop-up dialogs to be distracting, so I want to
limit the notifications I receive to events that require my immediate
attention.  One example usage for Growl that comes to mind is
monitoring a web site.  If an important site goes down or gets sick, I
want to be interrupted.  Here's a simple shell script that scrapes a
web page using <tt>curl</tt> and <tt>grep</tt>, then uses the
bare-bones <tt>growlnotify</tt> command-line program to send a
notification if the web page isn't available or if it's displaying an
error message:
 
  #!/bin/sh
  #
  # growl.sh - Makes a sick web site growl
  #

  url=$1
  outputfile="/tmp/growl-$$.html"
  message=""

  trap "rm -f $outputfile" 0

  if curl -so $outputfile $url
  then
    if grep -qiE "Error|Exception" $outputfile
    then
      message="Help! I'm sick!"
    else
      exit 0  # success
    fi
  else
    message="Sadly, the site crashed."
  fi

  echo $message | growlnotify "Web Site Status"

To test it on my DMS web application, I type:

  $ growl.sh http://localhost:8080/dms

When things have gone bad, here's the notification I get, which fades nicely after a couple of
seconds:

[] http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/starter_kit/au/linked_images/growl.jpg

Scheduling the <tt>growl.sh</tt> script with <tt>cron</tt> is a cheap,
but effective, way to periodically check the web site and rattle my cage if the site needs help.
If you want more control, the Growl preferences pane in System
Preferences lets you disable notifications that you don't want to
see.

One obvious limitation of Growl is that your have to watch your screen
for the notification.  Ideally, you'd also use cell phone notification
for monitoring on the go, as described in the
{book}[http://www.pragmaticprogrammer.com/sk/auto/].

