= The Return of Bobzilla

abstract::
Inspired by Bobzilla, Fred McCann has started the open source BugReport Appender project.

Inspired by Bobzilla---the automatic crash reporting framework
described by {Bob Lee}[http://today.java.net/pub/au/152] in the
{book}[http://pragmaticprogrammer.com/starter_kit/au/index.html] and
in his
{blog}[http://weblogs.java.net/blog/crazybob/archive/2004/04/automatic_crash.html]
---Fred McCann has started the open source {BugReport
Appender}[http://bugsappender.sourceforge.net/] project:

[] BugReport Appender is a collection of {log4j}[http://logging.apache.org/log4j] appenders that file
   whole bug reports instead of individual logging events.  

   BugReport Appender maintains a logging buffer for each application
   thread. It collects logging events in this buffer until the thread
   exits or some other threshold conditions are met. If any of the
   events are of a specified priority, the list of events are filed as
   a bug report. This aggregates related logging events in a single
   place. Also, the buffer contains logging events of all levels, so
   even if it takes an ERROR level event to file a bug report, all
   logged events will be in the report even if other loggers are
   ignoring them.

   BugReport Appender is designed primarily to monitor heavily
   threaded applications in production, such as web applications. 
   This allows applications to detect error conditions and log
   reports directly into bug tracking systems.

The project currently supports reporting bugs to files on the local
file system and over HTTP to the {BUGS - The Bug
Genie}[http://bugs-bug-genie.sourceforge.net/] bug tracking system.  And your bug tracking system could be next!  If you can post bugs
directly to a web application, then Fred has
the plumbing in place to help you integrate quickly.  Then, if your
application runs into trouble in production, it can phone home.
