= Automation Saves Christmas

abstract:: 
Last Christmas, Simon Chappell and his team leaned on software
automation to keep up with the pace of warehouse automation. Seeing
this well-oiled machine in action, I just kept repeating one word: Wow!

<em>Last Christmas, Simon Chappell and his team leaned on software
automation to keep up with the pace of warehouse automation.  Santa
only wishes his elves were this resourceful.  Simon writes:</em>

Last year, Lands' End selected its strategic J2EE application server
and the word came down from upon high that projects should port to it
as quickly as possible. Because life has a sense of humour and I'm
often the punchline, it was decided that our project should be the
first one to make the transition.

Being a big and expensive application server (no names to protect the
guilty), it lives on its own server and mere programmers are not
allowed to touch it. This eliminated the easy deploy that we had
previously enjoyed. But the spirit of pragmatism will not be deprived!
Now our Ant script has a target for building the required EAR file and
then we run a second script to use secure copy to move the file to a
directory on a designated machine.

For our web application, we had special capacity needs above and
beyond the capabilities of the internal toolset. While our public
facing website is very well tested, it is done using an external
service. This was not an option for our internal web application. Yet,
the load it was required to handle was above anything that we could
generate with even our whole team rapidly hitting it from our
workstations.  By using
{JUnitPerf}[http://clarkware.com/software/JUnitPerf.html], I was able
to construct a test that simulated anything from 1 to 100 simultaneous
users, using {HttpUnit}[http://httpunit.sourceforge.net] to interact
with our web application and with each simulated user using unique
data.

With the realistic traffic that we generated, we were able to identify
and resolve several bottlenecks in our system's performance. The day
was saved. Our system took us through our Christmas peak season with
no support calls. And with the tests being scripted, we can re-run
them at anytime that we please: after changes to the internal
infrastructure, or as we recently did to test that our system would
run unaffected by our newest companion system in the J2EE cluster.

If you can't automate everything, you automate what you can.

<em>
I was teaching at Lands' End earlier this month and got to see
Simon's web application being put to the task during this year's peak
shopping season.  At stations on the warehouse floor, amidst a
dizzying network of conveyor belts loaded with holiday gifts, an army
of workers use the web application to help package and ship orders.
It seemed only fitting that delivering the software to these work
stations be as automated as delivering the packages to your house.
Seeing this well-oiled machine in action, I just kept repeating one
word: Wow!  
</em>
